hey guys this may be the least creative
video you've ever seen on YouTube but a
legitimate question I get is what the
hell does vegan cuisine look like in
Yan'an and this is asking really about
what is authentic Yunnan style cuisine
and then within authentic Yunnan cuisine
what dishes happen to be vegan what type
of food happens to be vegan right so if
you go to a vegan restaurant in Yunnan
this is not what you're gonna get some
of the things you're gonna see here at a
normal vegan restaurant actually if you
ask for them verbally they probably
can't make it but it's not on the menu
this is really traditional stereotypical
authentic unities food that happens to
be vegan and these photographs were
taken at a non vegan restaurant
although the particular dishes are
absolutely 100% vegan we'll go through
them one by one first up Cong sin tai
hollow heart vegetable from my
perspective there's almost no point in
trying to use the names of the different
green vegetables here precisely partly
because there are local dialect issues
involved with partly this is a great
example there are at least two different
species of plant that are referred to
with this same name so to genuinely
different species but if you order this
so what plant you get the flip a coin
you're not really sure what you're in
yet if you ask if they have this but
this is really traditional local food
first and foremost you're gonna notice
in a sense there is no sauce right this
is just this type of green vegetable and
again I don't know you'll get something
resembling this but maybe not the same
species of plant tossed in hot oil in a
wok not even that much oil it's oil and
water if you actually look at the liquid
there you can see little beads of oil
and that's because the liquid is mostly
water when you lift it up you know you
lift up out of the bowl with your
chopsticks the liquid drips off of it
and then you mix it into your rice in
your bowl in some ways this style of
cuisine is more
monastic than what you might get in a
Buddhist monastery I personally dig it I
really enjoy sitting down and eating a
whole meal which is nothing but white
rice and undercooked green vegetables
does the other gonna say if you're
British or something you will actually
think this is undercooked the style of
cuisine again typically they really toss
this through hot wok quickly so it's
kind of halfway between a salad green
and a cooked vegetable it's not like a
European idea where you cook you know
peas until they're they're completely
dead to their core and you know for that
same reason I mean actually even just
you know what just look at the bits of
garlic the bright white garlic on screen
there to call that cooked this is pretty
close to raw garlic right so you get the
sense these greens have been wilted but
in a sense not really fully cooked so
that is very typical of Yunnan cuisine
and it's also not that great for present
preventing communicable diseases right
you can you can get sick from eating
this stuff keeping it all the way real
this is another green vegetable I eat
this kind of stuff all the time here I
have no idea what this is called in
Chinese or English or what species it is
I go into restaurants and I basically
ask them what kind of green vegetables
do you have and we take it from there
this is a mung bean soup this is a
traditional or typical vegan soup I'm
sorry again obviously it's not listed on
the menu as vegan this type of diced
vegetable and bean soup or stew I guess
you got to ask 10 times are you sure
there's no pork fat are you sure there's
you know you're not throwing in some
bits and pieces of meat or something but
this was absolutely hundred-percent
vegan so in this case I'm guessing what
they do basically is they stew the beans
and then toss in the chopped up green
vegetables and again the chopped up
green vegetables they're not really that
cooked which is great I mean it's
healthy but they're you know they're
they're kind of wilted rather than
really thoroughly cooked and again like
it's hard to describe it as having a
sauce
it really just tastes like it's
ingredients they throw together some
green vegetables some salt a little bit
of oil you can look at the surface of
the liquid it's not that much oil
and it is what it is you know the
ingredients just all speak for
themselves so very very different from
other regional cuisines of China very
different from what you stereotypically
get in Hong Kong I have lived in Hong
Kong in the past or the style of cuisine
that was exported from Hong Kong to
Canada and San Francisco in many parts
of the Western world normally every
restaurant even a meat a meat eating
restaurant will have a couple of
different types of mushrooms available
and sometimes they'll have photographs
of them sins of a shelf we actually go
up and look at the fresh mushrooms and
pointed the ones you want and this is
what they'll do with them this is really
again
Yunnan style there they're cooked
they've just been tossed in a little bit
again mostly water you're not actually
looking at much oil they're they're
tossed in a pan with boiling water and a
little bit of oil and salt and some
other vegetables and again even though
the mushrooms you can see they've wilted
look at the other vegetables look at the
red peppers they're they're almost raw
right they're not even compared to
Mexican cuisine if you had red peppers
of that Mexican cuisine they wouldn't
look like a salad pepper they would look
thoroughly cooked and here they're not
so again I do like this cuisine I can
say both good and bad about it here is a
map odo food Mapo tofu will unless
you're in a vegan restaurant it will
always be made with some meat unless you
ask for it verbally to admit without
meat it obviously doesn't need meat and
here again this tofu is not very
thoroughly cooked they've they've tossed
it through with basically a red chili
sauce and the main flavor here is
actually not the red sauce the main
source of flavor here is what we call
Szechuan pepper which you can see
left-of-centre there's a black dust that
is Szechuan pepper there are some people
who hate Szechuan pepper I don't know
why but very much your sort of
traditional and distinctive element of
Yunnan cuisine made perhaps especially
here in the capital city here in could
Ming but the other dishes you've seen I
would say were a hundred percent typical
of what you get by the side of the
highway anywhere in your name province
you're the only vegan options here you
get by that side of the highway
ian's this dish in particular map of dou
foo there are many variations
I would just say this it's not a
narrowly defined dish you get quite a
variety what if you order this dish
you're gonna get something red
you get something involving tofu and you
have to specify that you don't want any
pork you don't want any Me's and then
this but what it looks like and what it
tastes like will vary quite a lot
there's another famous dish year that I
wanted to photograph for this video but
the restaurant didn't have it but it is
a distinctive Yunnan dish and they do
not use this any of the standard words
for grandmother in Chinese there are
many many words in the dictionary
meaning grandmother and the Chinese
language but there's a local dialect
word a local Yunnan hua word that is not
in the dictionary and they combine that
with the word for potatoes and that
again is one of those dishes were
normally any traditional Yunnan
restaurant will have their own way of
making it for better or for worse so
grandmother's potatoes in general people
in Yunnan eat a lot of potatoes and they
eat a lot of um you know red tomatoes
they eat a lot of tomatoes in the diet
which is again unlike other parts of
China however this meal we did not have
tomatoes or potatoes I think that's
because yesterday we had a lot of we had
a lot of potatoes on the table it
started only the day before these these
photographs were taken so that's it
folks I mean you know it's simple it's
pure in a sense like you can taste the
ingredients very directly sadly it is
dangerous if you live in your nan you
are gonna get sick all the time you are
gonna get bacterial infections in your
stomach you're gonna get diarrhea get
diarrhea amoebic dysentery
um it's not safe you not even if you're
freaking and even though I do really
like I like eating raw green vegetables
I like eating lightly cook green
vegetables there is sadly a logical
reason why my ancestors when they were
cutting down trees in rural Canada were
eating you know horrible European foods
like baked beans where by the way if you
don't know a traditional they would dig
a hole in the ground
throw the hot coals in the in the hole
put in the pot of baked beans and let it
boil for 24 hours that was traditional
so when
you boil the hell out of added beans for
one thing you start off with white beans
and you end up with brown beans because
they've been cooked in sugar for such a
long time you also kill all of the
bacteria and you render them something
completely safe and reliable to eat
which this stuff definitely is not I'm
now in could Ming I'm moving out to the
border with Myanmar into Hong so I'm
going from a very temperate ma you know
mild climate out to the tropics where
communicable diseases are way up on
another level so I hope you guys stick
with me you're probably gonna see some
more bizarre food videos from my life in
China assuming I can still access the
Internet in the years ahead